#### Unemployment and Entrepreneurship in the US Economy
This is the home of my undergraduate thesis in economics at Carleton College. I use vector autoregression modeling techniques to investigate the relationship between the level of entrepreneurial activity and the unemployment rate in the US. The main attraction here is [the paper](https://github.com/qbatten/undergrad_thesis/blob/master/quinnbatten_thesis_paper.pdf), but it's not a light read (~32 pages of economics-talk). For an easier to digest version, take a look at [the poster](https://github.com/qbatten/undergrad_thesis/blob/master/quinnbatten_thesis_poster.pdf) or take a look at the section at the bottom of this page— it's an excerpt from the conclusion to the paper, and sums the whole project up quite nicely.

A note about the code... it's a bit of a mess. This project was from before I learned how to use git, or really knew about versioning at all. I also switched back and forth between R, Stata, and Excel multiple times across the project. I had a strong personal preference for R, but at the time, Stata's VaR features were far better (and better-documented) than R's.

#### A brief summary of my findings
In this study, I used a large and high-frequency dataset to investigate the relationship between entrepreneurship and unemployment in the US. Entrepreneurship is generally seen as an unequivocal good in the U.S., and policy is often enacted based on this premise. However, the actual, concrete effects of entrepreneurship on the economy are poorly understood. As a recent example, Obama's administration enacted many policies to support entrepreneurs with a clear expectation that doing so will raise the employment level and "create prosperity" (The White House, 2016). There is certainly reason to believe that reducing barriers to entrepreneurship has a positive effect on the economy (Gries 2009). However, there is also evidence that increases in entrepreneurship can significantly increase unemployment in the short term, with negative effects on employment lasting for several years. Such effects would be very important to consider when enacting policy that encourages entrepreneurship while the country is in the midst of a recession. My study aims to refine expectations about the way unemployment responds to entrepreneurship (and vice versa) in the U.S. economy. 

I find that a positive shock to entrepreneurship causes an increase in unemployment two and three years after the shock and a decrease in unemployment in the tenth year after the shock. Further, these two variables are important predictors (and probably causal influences) on each other. These findings are consistent with the literature and contribute important evidence towards this area of research. My final model also fails to find support for a hypothesis that is supported by several other papers: that a shock to unemployment will cause a short-term increase in self-employment. Although my final model does not support this hypothesis, results from my model-selection process indicate that a more sensitive model would likely have found evidence for this effect.

In summary, unemployment and entrepreneurship have significant effects on each other, and policymakers need to be conscious of those effects when manipulating the incentives for entrepreneurship as a policy lever. After a shock to entrepreneurship, there are short-term positive effects and long-term negative effects on unemployment. Therefore, encouraging entrepreneurship may not be a useful policy tool during and immediately after recessions.